Add support for certificates in PKCS#12 (P12) key stores (#53810)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/security/securing-communications/index.asciidoc

<titleabbrev>Encrypting communications</titleabbrev>
++++

> 

Author: @lcawl I clarified this below on lines 7 and 8 -- let me know what you think.

> {kib} supports Transport Layer Security (TLS/SSL) encryption for all forms of data-in-transit. Browsers will send traffic to {kib}, and

Reviewer: Switching to present tense instead of future:
```suggestion
{kib} supports Transport Layer Security (TLS/SSL) encryption for all forms of data-in-transit. Browsers send traffic to {kib} and
```

> {kib} will send traffic to {es}. These are configured separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{kib} sends traffic to {es}. These communications are configured separately.
```

> 

Reviewer: It's a good idea to add an explicit anchor ID to these new sections, so they're not auto-generated (and therefore less reliable):
```suggestion
[[configuring-tls-browser]]
```

==== Encrypting traffic between the browser and {kib}

> NOTE: You do not need to enable {security} for this type of encryption. 

Reviewer: This attribute is newer and doesn't use "X-Pack" terminology:
```suggestion
NOTE: You do not need to enable {security-features} for this type of encryption. 
```

. Obtain a server certificate and private key for {kib}.
+
--
{kib} supports certificates/keys in both PKCS #12 key stores and PEM format.

When you obtain a certificate, you must do at least one of the following:

.. Set the certificate's `subjectAltName` to the hostname, fully-qualified domain name (FQDN), or IP address of the {kib} server.

.. Set the certificate's Common Name (CN) to the {kib} server's hostname or FQDN. Using the server's IP address as the CN does not work.

You may choose to generate a certificate and private key using {ref}/certutil.html[the {es} certutil tool]. If you already used certutil to
generate a certificate authority (CA), you would generate a certificate/key for Kibana like so (using the `--dns` param to set the
`subjectAltName`):

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-certutil cert --ca elastic-stack-ca.p12 --name kibana --dns localhost
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> This will generate a certificate/key contained PKCS #12 keystore named `kibana.p12`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate a certificate/key in a PKCS #12 keystore named `kibana.p12`.
```

Author: I'll clarify this.

--

. Enable TLS/SSL in `kibana.yml`:
+

> --

Author: @lcawl I added this info above in lines 25-34. Let me know what you think.

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
server.ssl.enabled: true
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--

. Specify your server certificate and private key in `kibana.yml`:
+
--

> If your certificate/key are contained in a PKCS #12 keystore, specify it like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your certificate/key is in a PKCS #12 keystore, specify it like so:
```

Author: I'll reword this.

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
server.ssl.keystore.path: "/path/to/your/keystore.p12"
server.ssl.keystore.password: "optional decryption password"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Otherwise, if your certificate/key are in PEM format, specify them like so:

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
server.ssl.certificate: "/path/to/your/server.crt"
server.ssl.key: "/path/to/your/server.key"
server.ssl.keyPassphrase: "optional decryption password"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After making these changes, you must always access {kib} via HTTPS. For example, 
https://localhost:5601.

> 

Author: @lcawl that information was incorrect, I have updated the reference information for `server.ssl.enabled` to clarify. It enables SSL for inbound requests from the browser to Kibana. There are no outgoing requests from the Kibana server to the browser (there's no such thing), but traffic both ways (requests and responses) is encrypted. Let me know if you think this should be rephrased or clarified.

For more information, see <<settings,{kib} configuration settings>>.
--

> ==== Encrypting traffic between {kib} and {es}

Reviewer: Likewise, it's a good idea to set an anchor ID for this section. For example:
```suggestion
[[configuring-tls-kib-es]]
==== Encrypting traffic between {kib} and {es}
```

NOTE: To perform this step, you must 
{ref}/configuring-security.html[enable the {es} {security-features}] or you 
must have a proxy that provides an HTTPS endpoint for {es}. 

. Specify the HTTPS URL in the `elasticsearch.hosts` setting in the {kib} configuration file, `kibana.yml`:
+
--
[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
elasticsearch.hosts: ["https://<your_elasticsearch_host>.com:9200"]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Using the HTTPS protocol results in a default `elasticsearch.ssl.verificationMode` option of `full`, which utilizes hostname verification.

Author: @lcawl That statement wasn't entirely accurate, I've updated it here to clarify, and I have also added a matching sentence in the reference for `elasticsearch.hosts`.

For more information, see <<settings,{kib} configuration settings>>. 
--

. Specify the {es} cluster's CA certificate chain in `kibana.yml`:
+
--

If you are using your own CA to sign certificates for {es}, then you need to specify the CA certificate chain in {kib} to properly establish
trust in TLS connections. If your CA certificate chain is contained in a PKCS #12 trust store, specify it like so:

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
elasticsearch.ssl.truststore.path: "/path/to/your/truststore.p12"
elasticsearch.ssl.truststore.password: "optional decryption password"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Otherwise, if your CA certificate chain is in PEM format, specify each certificate like so:

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities: ["/path/to/your/cacert1.pem", "/path/to/your/cacert2.pem"]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--

> (Optional) If the Elastic {monitor-features} are enabled, configure {kib} to connect to the {es} monitoring cluster via HTTPS. The steps are

Reviewer: Should this be part of the steps? If so:
```suggestion
. (Optional) If the Elastic {monitor-features} are enabled, configure {kib} to connect to the {es} monitoring cluster via HTTPS. The steps are
```

> the same as above, but each setting is prefixed by `xpack.monitoring.` -- e.g., `xpack.monitoring.elasticsearch.hosts`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the same as above, but each setting is prefixed by `xpack.monitoring.`. For example, `xpack.monitoring.elasticsearch.hosts`,
```
